We describe an infant with Hirschsprung disease (congenital aganglionosis of the intestine) involving the colon and terminal ileum. Midtrimester prenatal diagnosis of this disorder in this infant was attempted utilizing amniotic fluid disaccharidase analyses, ultrasound, and amniography. Decreased disaccharidase activities in amniotic fluid have been reported previously in association with other forms of intestinal obstruction. At 15 weeks' gestation, normal amniotic fluid disaccharidase levels were obtained. Serial ultrasound evaluations did not indicate any pathology, and the results from amniography were inconclusive. The implication of the normal disaccharidase values is that Hirschsprung disease may in some cases result from degeneration of intestinal ganglia after 16 weeks' gestation rather than from faulty migration of neural crest cells. The inheritance of Hirschsprung disease is generally consistent with sex-modified multifactorial inheritance with a lower threshold of expression in males. The case we report has a family history of three affected first- and second-degree relatives. Autosomal dominance with variable expressivity is a possible explanation in this family. Hirschsprung disease is a congenital disorder with the incidence of 1 per 5000 live births, characterized by the absence of intestinal ganglion cells. In the etiology of Hirschsprung disease various genes play a role; these are: RET, EDNRB, GDNF, EDN3 and SOX10, NTN3, ECE1, Mutations in these genes may result in dominant, recessive or multifactorial patterns of inheritance. Diverse models of inheritance, co-existence of numerous genetic disorders and detection of numerous chromosomal aberrations together with involvement of various genes confirm the genetic heterogeneity of Hirschsprung disease. Hirschsprung disease might well serve as a model for many complex disorders in which the search for responsible genes has only just been initiated. It seems that the most important role in its genetic etiology plays the RET gene, which is involved in the etiology of at least four diseases. This review focuses on recent advances of the importance of RET gene in the etiology of Hirschsprung disease. The identification of common variants that contribute to the genesis of human inherited disorders remains a significant challenge. Hirschsprung disease (HSCR) is a multifactorial, non-mendelian disorder in which rare high-penetrance coding sequence mutations in the receptor tyrosine kinase RET contribute to risk in combination with mutations at other genes. We have used family-based association studies to identify a disease interval, and integrated this with comparative and functional genomic analysis to prioritize conserved and functional elements within which mutations can be sought. We now show that a common non-coding RET variant within a conserved enhancer-like sequence in intron 1 is significantly associated with HSCR susceptibility and makes a 20-fold greater contribution to risk than rare alleles do. This mutation reduces in vitro enhancer activity markedly, has low penetrance, has different genetic effects in males and females, and explains several features of the complex inheritance pattern of HSCR. Thus, common low-penetrance variants, identified by association studies, can underlie both common and rare diseases. 